Title: Autism: Parental Physical Health
Author: Bailey McNab
Tags: Memory, Parental Well-Being, Autism, Health
Date: 5/30/2017
Status: draft

Health issues among parents is another common theme that has presented itself in households where disabilities are present. These parents experience an increase in stress which results in decreased level in quality of life (Resch, Elliott, and Benz, 2012). Past research has indicated about 35% to 53% of parents of children with disabilities have experienced depression as a result of the stress from parenting children with disabilities (Resch, Elliott, and Benz, 2012). In a study performed by Resch, Elliot, and Benz (2012), 110 parents participated in a survey that looked at social problem-solving abilities, physical health, family satisfaction, and more. Results of this study indicated that even though the percentage of those with depression was 19.1%, parents raising children with disabilities can increase the risk for depression. This study also acknowledges that this percentage is much lower than past research. Parental physical health and family satisfaction seem to create a circular relationship with depression. Mcbean, and Schlosnagle, (2016) make the prediction that sleep disturbances in children are related to sleep disturbances of the parent. In this study, researchers seek to find out the relationship between sleep disturbances, memory, and mental and physical health among parents who have children with disabilities. A total of 168 parents were recruited to fill out a survey. Parents with typically developing children and parents with atypically developing children were compared. The results showed that parents who have typically developing children had a greater quantity of sleep, took less time to fall asleep, and a better quality of sleep. Parents with atypically developing children reported a worse quality of sleep, less sleep time in all, and a longer time to get to sleep.
As it relates to memory, Mcbean, and Schlosnagle, (2016) found that parents with atypically developing children were experiencing significantly lower prospective and retrospective memory than parents with typically developing children. Parents reported that daily memory failures occurred. As it relates to general health. Mcbean and Schlosnagle, (2016) found that parents with atypically developing children are three times more likely to report less-adequate health. Shown, was a correlation between sleep and memory, and sleep and physical health between both sets of parents. The poorer the sleep in either group was associated with poor memory and more physically hindered days (Mcbean, and Schlosnagle, 2016). Some of the limitations of this study included the sample sizes differing in age. The parents with typically developing children were a younger group than the parents with atypically developing children. It was assumed that because the typically developing group was younger, their children were likely to be younger than the experimental group. This could have skewed the results because typically, parents with younger children often have more poor sleep than parents with older children. Also, parents who are older typically report poor general health. This could have skewed some of the results because they the experimental group was older. The reports of poorer health could have come from age. 

> Mcbean, A. L., & Schlosnagle, L. (2016). Sleep, health and memory: comparing parents of 	typically developing children and parents of children with special health-care 	needs. Journal Of Sleep Research, 25(1), 78-87. doi:10.1111/jsr.12329

> Resch, J. A., Elliott, T. R., & Benz, M. R. (2012). Depression Among Parents of Children 	With Disabilities. Families, Systems & Health: The Journal Of Collaborative Family 	Healthcare, 30(4), 291-301.
